---
title: "Tick list"
layout: categories
permalink: /tick-list/
author_profile: true
---

*Climbed routes, maybe a comment, and occasionally a photo.*


### Fjällbo, Kenneths led

**Date:** 2018-06-10

A good route. I don't think it deserves the 3 stars in the guide book but a good
route nevertheless. Really easy climb for being a 5.

**Gear:** Two large cams and a nut up to the tree, sling the tree and nuts after
the tree.

**Anchor:** Bolted

---

### Utby, Till

**Date:** 2018-06-13

Nice route on the cliff with the same name. Best done as a transport to the
route *Luftiga Steget* (i.e. climb until the plateaux, regroup, and change
line).

**Gear:** *Not sure but,* a size 2 and a size 3 cam, nuts and maybe a size 0.75
cam at the end.

**Anchor:** Excellent tree on the plateaux!

---

### Utby, Luftiga Steget 

**Date:** 2018-06-13

Such a good route. Exposed. The line scaling the cliff face is even better but a
bit too exposed at the moment.

**Gear:** Apart from one or two size 2 or 3 cams at the beginning of the route,
you only need nuts.

**Anchor:** If finished to the right, trees, if finished to the left, a 0.75 cam
and either a quite large or a quite small nut.

---

### Utby, Alfa Helix

**Date:** 2018-06-13

*not done*

Starts of to the right of the big crack/opening. (Early pro will likely result
in severe rope drag.) Difficult to put pro around the crux.

**Gear:** Cam 2 in horizontal crack as first protection, one nut and maybe a
small cam before the tree. Sling the tree as final pro. 

**Anchor:** There is a bolted anchor to repel from, but for belaying your
second I would use the tree in the corner of the plateaux.

---

### Gärdsås, Jug

**Date:** 2018-06-16

Nice route with two alternatives for the middle. All parts are easily protected.

**Gear:** A little bit of each. Nice to have a size 2 cam behind the big block.

**Anchor:** A tree and maybe a cam backup.

---

### Gärdsås, Luftmadrassen-ish

**Date:** 2018-06-16

Climbed the route but instead of traversing the second roof to Älgens
Överraskning I went straight up. Really nice route nevertheless!

**Gear:** Quite long route (uses a lot of gear). I used sizes 0.5, 0.75, 1, and
2, but would have been nice with some more smaller cams. Placed quite a lot of
nuts but only a couple felt bomber.

**Anchor:** A juniper and two cams (size 3 and size 4) made a nice three point
anchor.

---

### Gärdsås, Älgens Överraskning

**Date:** 2018-06-16

Such a nice route.

**Gear:** Used a full Friend rack, except the 4. Could have used at least one
(preferably two) more size 1 for the traverse (did it with only a bomber nut in
the dihedral, that was intense...). Some nice nuts overall, but mostly vertical
cracks.

**Anchor:** Juniper and a size 4 cam.

---

### Utby, La Triviata

**Date:** 2018-06-26

A 4+, and as is common with routes graded 4 in Utby it is weird. Not bad, not
good.

**Gear:** Do not remember.

**Anchor:** Tree, quite far in, backed up with a \#3 Friend.

---

### Utby, Rönnleden

**Date:** 2018-06-26

A rare, very nice, 4+ route. In the guide book it is declared a really good
beginners route. I would agree, but building the anchor might be a bit tricky.

**Gear:** A few nuts and I think I placed a \#1 Friend. 

**Anchor:** \#2 and \#.75 Friends, yet the anchor was still a bit too low for my
taste.

---

### Utby, Ragnhilds Näsa

**Date:** 2018-06-26

*Not done*

First good placement I found was on the actual nose (5m up).
It might be possible to place something in the first horizontal crack, but I
could not find anything.
I fell after placing my first piece, but before being able to mantle onto the
nose.
After a rest and securing my cam with a nut, I was able to proceed to the wall
climbing part, but with only an additional \#2 in the big horizontal crack I did
not feel safe proceeding up the slab.
It is probably fine to take a fall there, but I'll probably TR this one before I
give it another try.

**Gear:** \#.5 in the nose, backed up with a small nut. \#2 in the horizontal
after the nose.

**Anchor:** *N/A*

---

### Utby,  Asterik och Obelix

**Date:** 2018-07-06

Dihedron that offers som really nice stemming and crack climbing.

**Gear:** \#.5, \#.75, and \#1 Friends. Finished of with a sling around the
tree.

**Anchor:** I did not belay my second from the top, but he opted to TR the route
from the birch.

---

### Fjällbo, Gunnars Skräck 

**Date:** 2018-07-15

A really nice slab, sort of in a dihedron.

**Gear:** Some really nice nuts and maybe a \#1 friend.

**Anchor:** Bolted if you do only the first part.

---

### Fjällbo, Skivblocket

**Date:** 2018-07-15

Spectacular piece of rock just standing there. Quite exposed and serious.

**Gear:** \#.75 friend and one bolt. 

**Anchor:** Bolted

---

### Fjällbo, ?

**Date:** 2018-07-15

A short crack. If you traverse to the right and then continue up the route is
called Limus. We did not know this and went straight up (significantly easier).

**Gear:** \#.5, \#.75, (\#1) friends, one big (13/14) nut in the upper section.

**Anchor:** If you have duplicates of small cams, you can use these. I had to
run into to the woods and find a tree...

---

### Fjällbo, Chivas Regal

**Date:** 2018-07-19

Nice crack, with a mini traverse on a good ledge. Crack climbing that does not
require jamming.

**Gear:** A lot. Used a full set of friends (minus the \#4) and 4 or 5 nuts.

**Anchor:** Trees. So many good trees.

---

### Fjällbo, Koskenkorva

**Date:** 2018-07-19

Crack to the right of the previous route that has given name to the crag. Not as
nice as Chivas regal.

**Gear:** A lot of cams and nuts.

**Anchor:** Trees. So many good trees.

---

### Fjällbo, Drambuie

**Date:** 2018-07-19

First 5+ on-sight. Committing start, but not very difficult.

**Gear:** \#.5 - \#1 and a \#3 friends, + a lot of nuts.

**Anchor:** Trees. So many good trees.

---

### Gärdsås, Mowgli

**Date:** 2018-07-31

Nice, shorter, route well in the shades on a very warm day.

**Gear:** One 14 nut, and basically a set of friends. (Might have omitted the
\#.75.)

**Anchor:** A very big tree

---

### Utby, Skärselden

**Date:** 2018-08-04

Crack climbing, but not very difficult. Nice route!

**Gear:** A diverse rack is good.

**Anchor:** Two medium sized nuts. Also trees available a bit further from the
edge.

---

### Utby, Slabben

**Date:** 2018-08-04

Basically a huge block that forms a nice slab.

**Gear:** Two nuts and a cam!

**Anchor:** Nope. We simply jumped off at the end.

---

### Utby, Spagaten

**Date:** 2018-08-04

Such. A. Good. Route.

I have probably climbed this route 10 times, but never on lead. The experience
is so much more intense when leading it. Despite being very familiar with the
route I went of the route a little bit (started doing the "direct" version,
bumps the grade up one notch to a 6-) and had to down climb two moves. Ugh.
Pulled myself together and finished the route. Intense!

**Gear:** A lot of really nice nuts, but some cams are nice to have (\#1 and
\#2).

**Anchor:** There's a big block you can put a sling around. Also some bomber nut
placements and if you have \#.5 and \#.75 cams there are good placements for
those too.

---

### Utby, Torrsimmet

**Date:** 2018-08-04

Intense climbing that requires some really cool body jams. Spectacular body roll
move at the end if one wants to avoid belly flopping your way up the last part.

**Gear:** Definately requires big gear (used \#3 and \#4, could easily have used
another of each). Some good nuts.

**Anchor:** Sling around a big rock and a nut in the wall did the trick.

---

### Utby, Laybacksprickan

**Date:** 2018-09-19

Quite nice crack that offers one or two good layback moves. [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gyQ1ISd1idk)

**Gear:** Small cams. Used 1/2 Alien Revo, 2x.5 Friends, and a couple of small
nuts.

**Anchor:** 240 sling around a tree.

---

### Utby, Mirceas Led

**Date:** 2018-09-19

A wonderful, but oh so short, finger crack. A bit tricky to get up onto, but
offers solid crack climbing for 8 meters. [Video can be found here.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aX2q-5WvtEE&t=18s)

**Gear:** Mostly nuts, but a .5 Friend (or x4 in this case) was good to have.

**Anchor:** 240 sling around a tree.

---

### Fjällbo, Sodom

**Date:** 2018-09-24

Two routes in one(?). A bit weird, but quite good. Especially the upper half
which offers some nice stemming in a tight dihedral. [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nUYm2ZG-ibE&t=71s)

**Gear:** A bit of everything

**Anchor:** A \#4 and a \#.75 Friend. (There are trees further up that can be
used.)

---

### Ramberget, Dubbelsprickan

**Date:** 2018-10-20

The hardest 4- I have ever done. Ramberget in general seems quite sandbagged,
but I guess that's what happens when one person establishes a whole crag? [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2lVlR9JPYhg)

**Gear:** Small to medium sized friends and a few nuts.

**Anchor:** A \#4 and a \#3 Friend.

---

### Ramberget, Hörnet \[First Ascent\]

**Date:** 2018-10-20

A really, really, nice crack in a dihedral. Not in the guide book, but I have a
hard time imagining this has not been climbed before. Nevertheless, I would
grade this 5(-) but given the other grades in the area it is probably a 4(-).
[Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DLVh9znhs1Y)

**Gear:** \#1 friends and smaller

**Anchor:** IIRC one \#4 and one larger nut.

---

### Ramberget, Taktraversen

**Date:** 2018-10-20

Probably the best route on the left wall (Ramberget constitutes of Stora Plattan
to the left and Svarta Väggen to the right). Varied climbing with a non trivial
traverse under a roof. We ended on the chain (which can be used for rappelling)
but you can probably climb the last meter or so if you want to.

**Gear:** Quite a lot. Requires quite big gear, but you may also find small cams
useful.

**Anchor:** I clipped the chain, was lowered, and belayed my second from the
ground. Presumably much more convenient than attempting to build something at
the top.

