_pages/work-with-me.md, before:

---
title: "Work with me"
layout: single
permalink: /work-with-me/
author_profile: true
---

DevOps is speed, which is achievable when your operations department enables the development department to take
complete ownership of their services.

If you succeed to give your developers the platform, tools, and space they need to be creative, they will deliver
higher quality software at a faster pace.
I can help your organization achieve this.

## Why am I successful at what I offer?

My two biggest strengths are that I have done a little bit of everything and always strive to find new processes to
streamline.
The goal is always the same: Remove hurdles, increase speed, get better results.

My career started with software development and I still write code on a daily basis.
However, it's not much Java SpringBoot anymore, but rather scripts for automating different steps in a product's
value stream.
Every so often I need to get waist deep in some actual application in order to understand how I can best help the
team developing it, but I mostly focus on meta-programming[^meta-programming].

After a couple of years as a developer, my career pivoted towards leadership.
I have worked as a Scrum Master and a Team Facilitator, where I have helped teams find *their* best way of working.
I also spent six months as Acting Line Manager at Ericsson.
This taught me that I never want to become a manager again, but I also learned invaluable lessons about multi-team and
organizational leadership, that I had not picked up from my time as a Team Facilitator.

Now, I combine my technical knowhow with my leadership and management skills to help organizations deliver software
faster.
I draw inspiration from the DevOps movement because I believe that DevOps will do to software development what Lean did
to manufacturing.

---

If the above resonates with you, let's get in touch!
The easiest way to reach me is via [email](mailto:erik@thorsell.io), but feel
free to use [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/thorsellerik/) if you so prefer.

<!-- REFERENCES -->
[^meta-programming]: *Not* application programming, but the programming you need to do to ensure you
                     can safely and swiftly deploy services to production.
                     Infrastructure as Code, integration and deployment pipelines, (automated) documentation, etc.

[^swedish-saying]: Direct translation of a Swedish saying.

[^soft-skill]: Not quite sure what is "soft" about what is commonly referred to as *soft skills*, but I think you get
               what I mean.


[devops-handbook]: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26083308-the-devops-handbook "The DevOps Handbook"
[resume]: /assets/erikthorsell_cv.pdf "My resumé"

Commit message:

Rewrite front and work-with-me pages

_pages/work-with-me.md, after:

---
title: "Work with me"
layout: single
permalink: /work-with-me/
author_profile: true
---

If you succeed to give your developers the platform, tools, and space they need to be creative, they will deliver
higher quality software at a faster pace.
I can help your organization achieve this.

## My background

My two biggest strengths are that I have done a little bit of everything and always strive to find new processes to
streamline.
The goal is always the same: Remove hurdles, increase speed, get better results.

My career started with software development and I still write code on a daily basis.
However, it's not much Java SpringBoot anymore, but rather scripts for automating different steps in a product's
value stream.
Every so often I need to get waist deep in some actual application in order to understand how I can best help the
team developing it, but I mostly focus on meta-programming[^meta-programming].

After a couple of years as a developer, my career pivoted towards leadership.
I have worked as a Scrum Master and a Team Facilitator, where I have helped teams find *their* best way of working.
I also spent six months as Acting Line Manager at Ericsson.
This taught me that I never want to become a manager again, but I also learned invaluable lessons about multi-team and
organizational leadership.

## My offering

Now, I combine my technical knowhow with my leadership and management skills to help organizations deliver software
faster.
I call myself a `DevOps Transformation Leader` and I believe that DevOps will do to software development what Lean
did to manufacturing.

Let's transform your organization, together.

## Get in touch

If this sounds intriguing or interesting, please reach out so we can talk more.
I prefer [emails](mailto:erik@thorsell.io), but [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/thorsellerik/) is fine too.
Add a 🚀 in the subject and I'll prioritize replying to your message!


<!-- REFERENCES -->
[^meta-programming]: *Not* application programming, but the programming you need to do to ensure you
                     can safely and swiftly deploy services to production.
                     Infrastructure as Code, integration and deployment pipelines, (automated) documentation, etc.

[^swedish-saying]: Direct translation of a Swedish saying.

[^soft-skill]: Not quite sure what is "soft" about what is commonly referred to as *soft skills*, but I think you get
               what I mean.


[devops-handbook]: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26083308-the-devops-handbook "The DevOps Handbook"
[resume]: /assets/erikthorsell_cv.pdf "My resumé"
