---
layout: default
date: 2020-05-14 13:37:00
---

*My name is Erik Thorsell and I created this site to have something to put on my
resume as a point of contact between you and me.*

*I also wanted a place to host [my tick list]({{site.url}}/ticklist)...*

# An Introduction #

There are a lot of things in life that I really appreciate: my wife, making
fires, rock climbing, trail running, solving difficult problems, and just
hanging out with awesome people. At the moment, I am grateful that I am able to
combine all of these things in the hotchpotch that I get to call life.

Workwise, I spend my days at [Ericsson](https://www.ericsson.com) where I have
the role as *Team Facilitator*. It's basically just a fancy way of combining
*Team Lead* and *Scrum Master*, without constraining the title, nor the
processes for the teams. In practice, I help my teammates navigate the minefield
with things that *could* be done and do my best to figure out the things that
the Product Owner and other stakeholders *need* done.

When I don't work, I spend a lot of time outdoors.  Sorted by frequency: I
[run](https://www.strava.com/athletes/48967952), I
[climb](https://youtu.be/aX2q-5WvtEE?list=TLPQMTAwNTIwMjB3pLfqNJL8aw), and I
[make fires](https://wirsenius.se/index.php/f/12183069). The running and fire
making are solely for fun, but I am a certified Swedish Climbing Federation
*help* instructor and my goal is to help the people who come to [Gothenburg
Climbing Club](https://gbgkk.nu/in-english/) for courses and assistance to have
a great and safe time. I also enjoy hiking which intersects well with my love
for coffee. Nothing beats a steeped cup of coffee from a pot warmed by the camp
fire.


# Academic and Work background #

I graduated from Chalmers University of Technology during the spring of 2018,
after 19 consecutive years in school. I spent three years studying music and
performance, another year studying theological leadership, and I now also hold a
B.Sc., an M.Sc. and an M.Sc.Eng.  in computer science.  I wrote [my B.Sc.
thesis](http://studentarbeten.chalmers.se/publication/244534-automatised-analysis-of-emergency-calls-using-natural-language-processing)
on the topic of natural language processing (NLP) and [my M.Sc.
thesis](http://studentarbeten.chalmers.se/publication/255285-vehicle-speed-profile-prediction-without-spatial-information)
on the applicability of recurrent neural networks for making time-series
predictions.

Work wise, I worked part time with machine learning related topics between 2016
and 2019. After graduating I have, however, been focusing mostly on a concept I
have come to call *Continuous Everything*. I have worked with Continuous
Integration, Delivery and Deployment, agile processes in general, and DevOps
development in particular. My "post graduation career" started at [HiQ
Gothenburg](https://www.hiq.se/en/jobs/gothenburg/), where I worked as a
consultant for two years, before taking my current role at Ericsson.

# Resum√© #

I am a curious guy and I really like to learn new things.
Check out [my resume]({{site.url}}/download/erikthorsell_cv.pdf), [work
page]({{site.url}}/work), and [LinkedIn
profile](https://www.linkedin.com/in/thorsellerik/) if you want to read more
about what I have done.

---

*If you have additional questions do not hesitate to contact me.
Send me a PM on LinkedIn or an email at
[erik@thorsell.cc](mailto:erik@thorsell.cc).
I am looking forward to hear from you and listen to what problems you have!*

