index.md, before:

---
layout: default
date: 2018-02-03 13:37:00
---

*My name is Erik Thorsell and I created this site to have something to put on my
resume as a point of contact between you and me.*

*I also wanted a place to host [my tick list]({{site.url}}/ticklist)...*

# An Introduction #

I graduated from Chalmers University of Technology during the spring of 2018,
after 19 consecutive years in school.
After studying music, performance, and leadership I now also hold a B.Sc., an
M.Sc. and an M.Sc.Eng. in computer science.
I wrote [my B.Sc.
thesis](http://studentarbeten.chalmers.se/publication/244534-automatised-analysis-of-emergency-calls-using-natural-language-processing)
on the topic of natural language processing (NLP) and [my M.Sc.
thesis](http://studentarbeten.chalmers.se/publication/255285-vehicle-speed-profile-prediction-without-spatial-information)
on the applicability of recurrent neural networks for making time-series
predictions.
I am a curious guy and I really like to learn new things.
Check out [my resume]({{site.url}}/download/erikthorsell_cv.pdf), [work
page]({{site.url}}/work), and [LinkedIn
profile](https://www.linkedin.com/in/thorsellerik/) if you want to read more
about what I have done.

Over the years I have become very disciplined and have developed an analytical
mind set which has proven very useful, both in my engineering studies and my
work life.
I am motivated by challenges and if engineering school has taught me anything
it is that I can learn *anything* given the time.
I want to find new approaches, learn new techniques, discover new subjects, and
widen my area of expertise.


# Current Status #

I am currently employed by [HiQ Gothenburg](https://www.hiq.se/en/), helping
Volvo Groups Truck Technology take the next step within vehicle automation.
My expertise concerns machine learning, artificial intelligence, optimization,
and software development.

*If you have additional questions do not hesitate to contact me.
Send me a PM on LinkedIn or an email at
[erik@thorsell.cc](mailto:erik@thorsell.cc).
I am looking forward to hear from you and listen to what problems you have!*

Commit message:

Update index with new work related info

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
date: 2018-02-03 13:37:00
---

*My name is Erik Thorsell and I created this site to have something to put on my
resume as a point of contact between you and me.*

*I also wanted a place to host [my tick list]({{site.url}}/ticklist)...*

# An Introduction #

I am approaching 30 and have been married for a little bit more than a year (as
of October 2019). My wife and I are currently living in Gothenburg, Sweden,
where I work as a consultant at [HiQ Gothenburg](https://www.hiq.se/en/). At HiQ
I work partly as a business area developer for our CI/CDD and AI/ML areas, and
partly as a DevOps engineer at Ericsson. 


# Academic and Work background #

I graduated from Chalmers University of Technology during the spring of 2018,
after 19 consecutive years in school.
After studying music, performance, and leadership I now also hold a B.Sc., an
M.Sc. and an M.Sc.Eng. in computer science.
I wrote [my B.Sc.
thesis](http://studentarbeten.chalmers.se/publication/244534-automatised-analysis-of-emergency-calls-using-natural-language-processing)
on the topic of natural language processing (NLP) and [my M.Sc.
thesis](http://studentarbeten.chalmers.se/publication/255285-vehicle-speed-profile-prediction-without-spatial-information)
on the applicability of recurrent neural networks for making time-series
predictions.

Work wise I have been working part time with machine learning related topics
since 2016. After graduating I have, however, been focusing mostly on CI/CDD,
agile processes in general, and DevOps development in particular. For my first
assignment as a consultant --- at HiQ Gothenburg --- I developed the Java-CI/CDD
workflow for Volvo GTT Vehicle Automation. After handing that system over, to a
newly formed VA CI/CDD team, I moved on to develop a new product at Ericsson
called Software Delivery Pipeline; a CDD tool for continuously deploying and
monitoring all Ericsson products. I have been part of this project since its
beginning in the spring of 2019.

I am a curious guy and I really like to learn new things.
Check out [my resume]({{site.url}}/download/erikthorsell_cv.pdf), [work
page]({{site.url}}/work), and [LinkedIn
profile](https://www.linkedin.com/in/thorsellerik/) if you want to read more
about what I have done.


*If you have additional questions do not hesitate to contact me.
Send me a PM on LinkedIn or an email at
[erik@thorsell.cc](mailto:erik@thorsell.cc).
I am looking forward to hear from you and listen to what problems you have!*
