---
layout: default
date: 2018-02-03 13:37:00
---

# Work #

## Java Developer gone rouge at Volvo

For my first assignment, I was expected to do Java Development at [Volvo GTT
Vehicle Automation](https://www.volvogroup.com/en-en/innovation/automation.html)
(VA).  However, I found that VA was in more need of someone who could help them
figure out how to continuously integrate and deliver their code, than a half
decent Java developer. (I became better though!) The VA management agreed, and
during the 12 months I spent at VA, I developed (and later handed over) what
would become the continuous build, test, and integration process for Volvo VA's
*Control Tower System* (CTS). Before I left the assignment I handed over the
system to a team running the equivalent system for the *Embedded Software*,
which had been developed alongside the CTS.

## Continuous Expert at Ericsson

My second (and last) assignment with HiQ, took place at Ericsson. I became the
fifth person in a team developing a brand new product for Ericsson. The product
is called *Software Delivery Pipeline* and is a tool that is used to
continuously upgrade and monitor all Ericsson nodes. My role was *Python
Developer and CDD Expert*, but just as with my Volvo assignment, things didn't
really turn out that way.

The team was in need of leadership, and I have a leadership background. Hence, I
ended up taking more and more responsibility for the team's daily work.
Eventually, the line manager, the team's product owner, and myself agreed that
we should formalize the work I was doing into an actual role: *Team
Facilitator*.

---

*There is more, but those jobs are to some extent covered by my LinkedIn-profile,
so until I have the time to write more I would suggest you check them out there!*
