---
title: vim -> nvim
---

Today I left vim. I have been using solemnly Vim for almost 5 years, but today
I finally took the step from vim to neovim. What pushed me over the edge was a
current project that I've been working on for a class in school. I am rewriting
[SHRDLU](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SHRDLU) in TypeScript, and I know
practically nothing about TypeScript -- so I wanted an auto completer. I have
always been skeptical to plugins since I have often found them slowing down vim
quite a lot. I did however find
[YCM](https://github.com/Valloric/YouCompleteMe) and was just about to install
it when my goto source for all things vim-related said: I have heard that
neovim has a really nice auto completion plugin...

Said and done, I have just been looking for reasons to leave vim for nvim and
now I had my chance. If you came here looking for a guide on how to setup
neovim, install deoplete and reorganize your .vimrc (it will soon be called
init.vim!) you have come to the right place -- let's get started!

# Installing neovim/nvim #

I run Arch, so installing nvim was simply a matter of

```
pacaur -S neovim
```

and then we were of to the races.

I have read that nvim can take your old `.vimrc` as is, which turned out to be
true! nvim does however want your config file to be named `init.vim` and it
should be placed in `$HOME/.config/nvim/`, where `nvim/` is your former
`.vim/`. Simply rename `.vim/` to `nvim/` and place it in `.config` and move
your freshly renamed `.vimrc` (`init.vim`) to that folder. If you're like me,
maybe you'd rather just change your symlinks from your dotfiles repo.

# Installing vim-plugin #

In order to install deoplete, I opted to use
[vim-plug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug). It is super light weight and
does exactly what it is supposed to do. In order to install vim-plug you go run
the following:

```
curl -fLo $HOME/.config/nvim/autoload/plug.vim --create-dirs \
    https://raw.githubusercontent.com/junegunn/vim-plug/master/plug.vim
```

All it does is downloading the file `plug.vim` from vim-plug's repository on
GitHub and places it in the specified directory.

# Installing deoplete #

Finally, we have arrived! Installing plugins with vim-plug is super easy.
Before we do that, we should create a folder to put our plugins in.

```
 $> mkdir $HOME/.config/nvim/plugged
```

Simply go to your nvim-config (should really be in `$HOME/.config/nvim/` by
now...) and write:

```
call plug#enable('$HOME/.config/nvim/plugged')

    Plug 'Shougo/deoplete.nvim'

call plug#end()
```

Now we need to configure the plugin to actually do some completion. Below the
code you just wrote add the following:

```
let g:deoplete#enable_at_startup = 1        # this starts deoplete
let g:deoplete#enable_smart_case = 1        # this makes deoplete smarter
let g:deoplete#disable_auto_complete = 1    # this forces you to trigger the auto complete 

inoremap <silent><expr> <C-Space>
    \ pumvisible() ? "\<C-n>" :
    \ <SID>check_back_space() ? "\<TAB>" :
    \ deoplete#mappings#manual_complete()
    function! s:check_back_space() abort "{{{
        let col = col('.') - 1
        return !col || getline('.')[col - 1]  =~ '\s'
    endfunction"}}}
```

The last really big chunk is related to the *disable auto complete* setting.
The key combination specified (in my case `<C-Space>`) triggers the auto
completion. That is, if `disable_auto_complete = 1`, you go on typing and only
when you press `Ctrl + Space` will the auto complete menu pop up. If you want
the menu to appear (and update) on every key press, simply put the first to
rows in your config and be done with it.

# Done -- almost #

By now you should have a working system up and running. However, we just made
quite an overhaul to our work flow and it would be shameful to not take this
opportunity to do one more change -- split our `init.vim` into chunks!

I have the following lines in my `init.vim`:

```
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""Welcome, you are awaited"""""""""""""""""""""""""""
"
" Below you find all the parts this initiation is made out of:
source $HOME/.config/nvim/config/init.vimrc
source $HOME/.config/nvim/config/general.vimrc
source $HOME/.config/nvim/config/plugins.vimrc
source $HOME/.config/nvim/config/keys.vimrc

```

and then I have sorted my config s.t. the relevant parts are in separate files.
It makes everything so much easier, especially when the number of lines
increases.

# Conclusion #

Those were my last two cents. If you care to take a look at how I have
structured my config, please have a look on
[GitHub](https://github.com/ErikThorsell/dotfiles/tree/master/nvim). I hope you
found this mini guide helpful.

